[MUSIC PLAYING]
MATT GAUNT: So you do testing
for all your projects, right?
ADDY OSMANI: I usually create
a new issue, assign it to you.
And then magically, overnight,
my tests get written.
It's the most wonderful thing.
MATT GAUNT: Mm-hm.
Yeah, for you.
So we did a previous
episode on unit testing
with things like Mocha.
And we looked at a whole
host of other ones.
What do you think
of when someone
says unit testing to you?
ADDY OSMANI: Oh, there's like
in-browser testing, CI testing.
There's usability testing.
There's an entire minefield.
MATT GAUNT: Yeah, so this is I
think, the biggest issue that I
have with a lot of this stuff.
When I first got into unit
testing, it was like Mocha.
And it was in the terminal.
And you get used to this thing
of like, this test passed, this
failed.
And that was all cool,
but it's JavaScript.
It's not in the browser.
You don't have the browser
API, so it was a bit-- I mean,
it got confused.
I was like, well, OK, do
I have to edit my code
to be separate so it can run
in Node, even though it's going
to run in a browser, or what?
That's been cleared up.
Because obviously,
with Mocha, you
can run in the browser,
which makes a bit more sense
if you're building
a browser library
and you need those APIs.
But there was always
this weird tension.
Because a lot of the work I've
been doing super recently,
I actually got to a point
where Node, I was mocking out
of a lot of the browser APIs.
It allows you to make the tests
super fast and super reliable,
because basically,
nothing was real.
Everything was
fake and a facade.
ADDY OSMANI: So you don't
have access to a window.
You don't have access to any
of those APIs, or these things.
MATT GAUNT: Yes.
So you end up doing
one of two things.
Either you run it inside the
browser with the Mocha stuff,
and it will actually use those
APIs, which, for the most part,
I find is good, because
if there's any browser
differences, you get them.
Or you mock all
of them out, which
means it's completely fake.
But it's normally super fast,
because it's not actually
doing any work.
You normally go,
in this case, pass.
In this case, throw an error.
But it still kind of
always confused me.
Like OK, so I have
these two things,
but it doesn't feel like this
is good on an ongoing basis,
because if I don't run the
tests, nothing happens.
So that's when we get
into the Selenium world.
And it gets super
interesting, slash, weird,
depending on how you do it.
So for anyone who doesn't
know, Selenium WebDriver is
a way of launching a
browser and controlling it,
is the most generic
way of putting it.
They have a ton of
different versions,
but this is the
JavaScript Node version
I've come to know and love.
Let's look at super basic,
bare bones, Selenium script.
And this is it.
So this is a Node version.
Selenium has a ton of
different libraries, which
also doesn't help, because
documentation-- just so much
stuff.
But in the most
bare bones thing,
you create what's known
as a WebDriver builder.
And at that point,
you can basically
say, OK, with the builder, I
want it to be a Chrome browser,
or I want to do this.
And then you can bolt
on additional things.
You'd say, build me a driver.
And from that point,
that is basically--
you can kind of think of it as
like an instance of a browser.
So that's what you've got here.
At that point, you can
just start using it.
So if we call get,
in this case I'm
going to launch my Mocha
test, because we want
to automate all of that stuff.
We don't want to worry about it.
And then, we are going to say,
wait until something happens.
In this case,
we're going to say,
wait until Mocha results becomes
a thing on the actual thing
inside the window.
And then, get the
Mocha results and do
something useful for them.
So this is like a really
basic Selenium thing,
but it's already super helpful.
So if you're going to run this--
I'm just going to run it with
Node, ~/test/selenium.
You're just going to nod
along, while I'm just
talking to myself.
ADDY OSMANI: I'm just
going to nod along,
assume you know
what you're doing.
MATT GAUNT: Yeah, that's
the safest way of doing it.
So all it's doing-- you can kind
of see it-- is Chrome pops off,
and then it closes.
And you briefly see
the Mocha test running.
This is super basic,
but it's super nice,
because it means that you could
put this-- because it's just
a Node script, you
can put it in npm run,
or you could add it to Travis.
You can do whatever you want.
It's super nice and clean.
The problem I always
had with this approach
is, it gets super
manual really quick when
you run Chrome and Firefox.
So I created this thing
called selenium-assistant.
And this entire thing
was like, just tell me
what browsers are available,
and then just give me
all of those in a WebDriver
thingy, and then run it.
Yeah.
So it's kind of weird, because
you get available browsers.
And it can give you
stable, beta, and unstable.
And we've done so much stuff
with service workers and brand
new APIs that you wanted
to test on all those ones,
because you knew breaking
changes were coming in.
ADDY OSMANI: Oh, yeah.
It's almost impossible
to manually stay
on top of testing that stuff.
MATT GAUNT: Yeah.
So I built this thing.
And that's all it does is just
simplify all those things.
And in this case, I've
kind of merged the two.
So if we do it super role with
just selenium-assistant, what
it's going to do is
we're going to get
all the available
browsers, open them
up, go through the same
steps of running Chrome,
and then return it.
And that's super
cool, because you
get into this super weird world
where suddenly browsers open
and close, open and
close, open and close.
And then you see
it go into Firefox,
and then it's open and
close, open and close.
There's still one
more big issue.
ADDY OSMANI: It's almost
as if you enjoy chaos.
MATT GAUNT: Well, it's
great when it works.
It's getting to that point.
You have this Mocha environment
where everything builds, runs,
and it either passes or fails.
Selenium just
gives you the piece
that opens up the browser.
ADDY OSMANI: Right.
MATT GAUNT: It doesn't actually
give you the pass-fail.
Selenium can open,
do all those things.
Things can go horribly
wrong and it just goes,
well, I don't care.
And the worst thing with that
is, if you have a Selenium test
and something goes wrong,
Selenium doesn't quit.
It doesn't close that
browser, so you end up
with a desktop full of 20
different browsers opened
simultaneously.
The way around that
is you kind of end
up mashing Mocha and
Selenium together.
And then you get
super trippy inception
where you've got Mocha
running a Selenium test, which
is running Mocha in the
browser, to then report back
to your Mocha/Selenium thing,
which is what I'm doing here.
Because you know what?
That's true chaos.
And that's what you need.
And it's kind of interesting.
So you get the
available browsers,
and you say, add Mocha test
for each individual browser.
So we've got foreach,
addMochaTest.
Inside of this,
we're then saying,
describe a new test suite.
And then, before each one,
get the Selenium driver.
So that's doing the
builder stuff for me.
And then, after
each, I just want
to make sure I call
quit on that browser.
Because without that, like I
say, especially when you start
working on this, if you
don't exit at the end,
it's going to suck.
So mocha
~/test/selenium/mocha-assistant.
And this time, it's going
to open the browser,
listen for the results, and come
back whether it works or not.
But I've also added
an additional step
to this one where, because
we're now in Mocha,
we can do individual tests,
I have that bunch of tests.
So it's like open the
browser with Mocha,
run through all the tests
that are unit tests.
And then I've added one
at the end, which is like,
OK, load another page,
click on the About link,
check that it actually
went to the About page.
And this is kind of
the interesting thing
with Mocha is you start getting
into more-- which I think
you'd class as an integration
test-- but it's like, make sure
the behavior is the actual
end thing that I'm expecting.
And I call them
integration tests,
so I've kind of labeled
them differently
to highlight the fact
they're going to be long,
because I think that's
part of the point is unit
testing's going
to be super fast,
super reliable, which
is why I'm kind of like,
you could mock it out,
and it makes sense.
Integration tests are
the big, long, scary,
can take a while kind of things.
And there's a ton of ways you
can skin both of these cats.
But I think it makes
a lot of sense.
So the super basic integration
test-- in this case,
we have my website.
I'm looking for a particular
link, which I'm executing
in the page, clicking it.
And then, at the
very end, I'm just
saying, OK, wait until the
document title is actually
what I expect it to be.
ADDY OSMANI: How well
does all this stuff
play with service worker?
MATT GAUNT: So that's
where I ended up
getting into the Selenium
stuff, because I was writing
Mocha tests in the browser.
And that was great
because it meant
a really repetitive
way of running tests
against service worker APIs.
And it was the only
way of doing it
in a sane way,
especially when you're
learning, because there's
lots of edge cases.
It was the then running them
in each individual browser
and repeatedly doing it, as well
as then running it in the CI.
You need all of that
in a Node script,
which is why I landed
on Mocha afterwards,
because you kick it
off on the Node side,
and then it's just JavaScript.
And you're not testing
any Node stuff.
You're only using Selenium
to launch the browser,
do certain things.
And plus, having that step
where you can then launch it,
perform certain
tasks on a demo page,
and then check what the
response is from the browser
is insanely helpful,
especially for figuring out
any possible browser differences
or bugs in each one, of which
there was many back in the day.
So that's where I'm at.
And I think I'm now starting
to try and delineate
between unit testing
and integration tests,
because with Selenium, you are
instantly in flaky territory.
Like, WebDriver just
does random stuff,
because of lulz and funzies.
ADDY OSMANI: Define
random stuff.
MATT GAUNT: It would
just-- so the worst
thing with a lot of this
stuff is you will randomly
get one browser
updating, and it will not
work with its current version
of its WebDriver equivalent.
Your CI kind of goes out
the window at that point.
But it will often come up
with a fix, sooner or later.
And it's very rare that that
will land on stable releases.
But there are just
times where, let's say,
you're using Express,
or some other Node
module start a local server.
If for whatever reason the
browser talking to Express
causes an issue and
something breaks, it breaks.
And that may be a once in a
lifetime opportunity on the CI
that you will never see again.
So I'm finding I'm
adding retries a lot
for Selenium WebDriver tests.
And generally, that
weeds out a lot of issues
to the point where
you're like, this
is actually a bug in my code.
ADDY OSMANI: What's the
typical number of retries you--
MATT GAUNT: I've been
landing on, like, three.
ADDY OSMANI: Three?
OK.
MATT GAUNT: And
that's just largely
because, nine times
out of 10, it's
because I'm using
like-- I'm even
going so far with
integration tests of testing
against real live networks.
You think of push.
You need the browser
to talk to whatever
push service they're
going to talk to, and then
get a network response.
And if for whatever reason
the CI's internet connection
is broken, that means my
test is going to fail.
It's going to get so
far, and then die.
ADDY OSMANI: I think
you've been tackling
some of the sort of bleeding
edge around unit testing,
dealing with service
worker, dealing with push,
and all of those other
newer platform APIs.
MATT GAUNT: I don't think
it's bleeding edge testing,
I think it's just I've been
testing a lot of bleeding edge
APIs, which is why
I'm reaching a lot
of these weird situations.
And it's also the reason why
I'm finding it so useful.
Because the main thing is,
if I build these things,
I also don't want
to babysit them.
ADDY OSMANI: Right.
Right.
MATT GAUNT: Because you
just lumber me with an issue
that I then don't want to
have to keep on looking after.
I just want you to deal with it.
ADDY OSMANI: That's
not going to happen.
MATT GAUNT: Yeah, I know.
ADDY OSMANI: That's just not.
MATT GAUNT: But
it's interesting.
I think everyone should
be looking at this stuff
and playing around with it.
Like the next step for me
is looking at services,
like BrowserStack and
SauceLabs, which I think,
now that I understand
Selenium, I'm
at that point where
I can appreciate
what SauceLabs does for me.
But I think that's
the interesting thing
is I feel like everyone who does
this starts off raw Selenium,
goes through the pain, realizes
there's abstractions that exist
and they want to use.
ADDY OSMANI: And then
they get to this point
where they could do a follow
up "Totally Tooling Tips"
episode on that topic.
MATT GAUNT: Boom.
[MUSIC PLAYING]